---
layout: post
title: "The State of Gaming is...Interesting"
date: 2025-09-27
tags: [editors opinion, gaming industry, aaa, triple a, indie, ea, ubisoft, team cherry, silksong, nintendo, palword, donkey kong, mario, bethesda, elder srolls, es]
---

The current state of the gaming industry has been getting rather crazy lately. I've been thinking about it more since I saw that EA is reportedly being sold in a record-setting $50 billion deal to a private equity firm called Silver Lake and Saudi Arabia's Public Investment Fund. We are seeing a major AAA developer/publisher get sold off. We are also seeing people boycott AAA studios due to the ever-growing trend of low-quality slop and increased prices.

Games are releasing in what can easily be called early access, especially when they require day-one patches and a year or two of updates just to fix bugs. Bugs that should have been fixed during the testing phase. Have developers stopped hiring testers, or stopped testing their own games entirely?

We see Nintendo catching justifiable strays due to their horrible business practices—whether it’s their targeted legal battle with Pocketpair (Palworld devs) or their pricing and strategies with the Switch and Switch 2. The Switch 2 costs $450, and all they have to offer is Mario Kart World, which will run you $80 unless you buy the $500 bundle. The only other first-party game available is Donkey Kong Bonanza, which costs $70, and I’ve seen many people say the game is “child-level easy.” Now, I get it—it’s a Nintendo game, of course it’s easy for kids—but remember when we played the OG Mario games? Were those easy? No. They were rage-inducing. Yet they were still marketed to kids. So now you pay $70 just because it’s Donkey Kong? Did it need to be so expensive? Of course it did—because Nintendo.

On the flip side, you have Team Cherry, a studio of three. Three dudes, and they crashed stores, selling their game for only $20. It was so good that even pirates were saying, “Don’t pirate it, buy it. Give them the money.” Possibly in the running for Game of the Year. $20, three people. Meanwhile, these bloated, overstaffed, and over-marketed studios think they deserve $70 or $80 for half-finished slop because—what? They have a big studio and industry history? Yeah, so do famous athletes, and they know when to quit while they’re ahead.

BioWare destroyed their own reputation. Bethesda has one last chance to stay relevant with ES6, but that’s questionable. Ubisoft is scraping by. AAA is dying. But here’s the main question, readers—the food for thought: when AAA as we know it is dead or no longer relevant, and all we have are indie studios, at what point will they become the new AAA? And will they learn from the past, or repeat history?
